# XML 101

## References
- [Dev.To article](https://dev.to/katiekodes/intro-to-xml-and-json-56co)

## Overview
This is an overview of XML files and how they work. They look similar to
HTML files but have differences(duh).

First and foremost, while HTML looks a bit like XML, HTML was built solely
as a markup language for documents to be displayed on a web browser
(Wikipedia definition). XML on the other hand is defined as a markup
language that defines a series of rules for encoding documents in a format
that is both human and machine-readable.

TL; DR XML was built explicitly to be able to express information(no matter
what that information is), simply and in a way that's usable by computers.

In addition XML, like JSON, was built to present lists rather than tables.

## XML Doc Format
First things first, some vocab that will be used. This is all based on
how data is sorted in a table. See below:
- "items": the entire row of a table(i.e it's one entry)
- "key": the column heading
- "values": values are the contents inside each column for that entry

With that out of the way, we can start writing our XML doc. When we do,
we add a XML declaration element at the top of the document like so:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
```

So we have our XML declaration element, which contains metadata pertaining
to the document encoding and XML version, now we need to have **ONE AND 
ONLY ONE** root element.

This behaves similarly to how JSX works where if you don't have a root
component to render, you have to encapsulate it in a JSX fragment. In
fact JSX probably borrows a large amount of syntax from XML.

So with that, we end up with the below:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Person></Person>
```

If you don't have any data to put in the XML tag you can indicate it
like so:
```xml
<Person/>
```