# XML 101

## References
- [Dev.To article](https://dev.to/katiekodes/intro-to-xml-and-json-56co)
- [W3 School on mixing attributes vs elements](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xml_dtd_el_vs_attr.asp)

## Overview
This is an overview of XML files and how they work. They look similar to
HTML files but have differences(duh).

First and foremost, while HTML looks a bit like XML, HTML was built solely
as a markup language for documents to be displayed on a web browser
(Wikipedia definition). XML on the other hand is defined as a markup
language that defines a series of rules for encoding documents in a format
that is both human and machine-readable.

TL; DR XML was built explicitly to be able to express information(no matter
what that information is), simply and in a way that's usable by computers.

In addition XML, like JSON, was built to present lists rather than tables.

## XML Doc Format
First things first, some vocab that will be used. This is all based on
how data is sorted in a table. See below:
- "items": the entire row of a table(i.e it's one entry)
- "key": the column heading
- "values": values are the contents inside each column for that entry

### Adding Your First Elements
With that out of the way, we can start writing our XML doc. When we do,
we add a XML declaration element at the top of the document like so:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
```

So we have our XML declaration element, which contains metadata pertaining
to the document encoding and XML version, now we need to have **ONE AND 
ONLY ONE** root element.

This behaves similarly to how JSX works where if you don't have a root
component to render, you have to encapsulate it in a JSX fragment. In
fact JSX probably borrows a large amount of syntax from XML.

So with that, we end up with the below:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Person></Person>
```

If you don't have any data to put in the XML tag you can indicate it
like so:
```xml
<Person/>
```

### Adding Values
The most basic way to add a value to your "item" is to nest it like so:
```xml
<Shape>
  Rectangle
</Shape>
```

You can then keep nesting more keys with their own values like so:
```xml
<Shape>
  Rectangle
  <Sides>
    4
  </Sides>
  <BorderColor>
    Pink
  </BorderColor>
  <BackgroundColor/>
</Shape>
```

So the above would read like so:
```
Shape
- "Rectangle"
- Sides
  - 4
- BorderColor
  - Pink
- BackgroundColor
  - null
```

**NOTE:** It's best practice to nest your plain text values at the top
of elements like the above for readability.

### XML Attributes
XML attributes are another way to add values to your elements and they
work in the same way as HTML attributes. 

For example, see the below:
```xml
<Shirt color="blue"/>
```

You can mix attributes with elements as much as you want, but you'll need
to keep readability in mind(both for people and computers).

Something like the below doesn't make much sense:
```xml
<root>
  <Shirt fabric="leather">
    <Color>Blue</Color>
  </Shirt>
  <Shirt fabric="cotton">
    <Color>Pink</Color>
  </Shirt>
  <Shirt fabric="linen">
    <Color>White</Color>
  </Shirt>
  <Shirt fabric="wool">
    <Color>Orange</Color>
  </Shirt>
</root>
```

While something like this would as the "brand" attribute serves more
as metadata rather than values that need to be parsed:
```xml
<Closet>
  <Shirt brand="Uniqlo">
    <Color>
      Blue
    </Color>
    <Fabric>
      Cotton
    </Fabric>
  </Shirt>
  <Shirt brand="Old Navy">
    <Color>
      Pink
    </Color>
    <Fabric>
      Wool
    </Fabric>
  </Shirt>
  <Shirt brand="Gap">
    <Color>
      White
    </Color>
    <Fabric>
      Synthetic
    </Fabric>
  </Shirt>
</Closet>
```
